# Attention-Based-3D-CNNs-Approach
Attention-Based 3D-CNNs Approach for Testicular Cancer Detection Using CEUS Videos

Deep learning has truly come a long way to emulate the form and functionality of human brain cells. In medicine, DNNs using CNN are finding applications in computer-aided diagnosis that are simply irresistible due to the fact that they are able to handle all kinds of internal data, including images, sounds, videos, and various scans including MRI, X-rays, and ultrasound. This work applies modified 3D CNNs with attention mechanisms to identify malignant nodules from contrast-enhanced ultrasound videos against the diagnosis of testicular cancer. Traditional 2D CNNs cannot process the inherent spatial and temporal dependencies of such medical videos, while 3D CNNs with residual self-attention and grid attention mechanisms have emerged as better solutions for this problem. The architectures developed are of two types: one with self-attention and the other with grid attention. Both models are trained using the cross-entropy loss with an Adam optimizer, including several cross-validation strategies due to the small size of their dataset. Indeed, for every instant, the self-attention-based architecture fares better than the grid-attention one. For a training accuracy of 85.9%, it yielded an F1 score of 0.71 and showed excellent performance in capturing both the spatial and temporal features which are critical for cancer detection. This work also demonstrates how attention mechanisms in 3D CNNs could further develop diagnostic accuracy and further discusses several avenues for future research studies, particularly in the aspects of improving model architecture and performing data management.
